hi I'm Andrea Matthews social media
manager for Holden and editor of the
Holden HQ blog today we're trying
something a little bit different for the
blog and so we've come for a drive with
performance engineer Dionne Schultz
Dionne works on the Holden Bowl program
the Volt's launching in Australia
towards the end of this year so he's
agreed to take us for a spin around
fishermans bend which is where Holden's
head office is and to talk a little bit
about his role on the program so Deon
your role is performance engineer can
you tell us a little bit about what that
means and what your specific role is on
the volt program so as part of the
program I and the energy and drive
quality technical specialists so I work
on looking at the range of the vehicle
in terms of electric range as well as
fuel consumption I also look at the way
the car drives with the vault we're
focusing around the range the electric
range how long it takes to charge and
we've had a number of left-hand Drive
because this is obviously EFT and drive
car no no steering wheel for me we've
had them in the country since the end of
last year can you tell me some of the
things that you've been you've been
doing with those cars I took them on a
test drive to Canberra I know what were
you trying to do there that's right we
were trying to see what the total range
was of the vehicle so the electric range
plus when the petrol generator kicks in
and and charges the battery as you drive
see how far we can go
on the total trip so we drove from
Melbourne to Canberra on a full charge
and a full tank of fuel and then we went
further on to Sydney to do the press
launch up there okay so for people that
don't know about the about the whole
vault it has a range of up to 80
kilometers on electric driving before
the engine kicks in is that right that's
right so we have it's called an extended
range electric vehicle so we not only
have the electric range so you plug the
car in and charge it up four to five
hours and then you can go up to 18
kilometers on a charge and then when the
battery goes flat
the petrol generator kicks in
automatically and charges your battery
as you drive so it can get you out to
over 600 kilometres okay so that's very
different than a lot of other electric
cars that's right so when an electric
car when it goes flat that's it you
can't go any further and you're taking a
tow truck home tell me what it's been
like having a car that you kind of you
drive you drive home at the end of the
night and plug it in and it must be a
strange experience it's it is different
in terms of you don't have to worry so
much about going to petrol stations once
a week but it's just like plugging in
your electric phone so when you get it
in you pull into the garage and plug it
in tell me a bit about how an electric
car works in terms of acceleration and
performance
so this has got fantastic performance it
drives really well like a normal car one
thing about an electric car is that you
don't have the gearbox
you have a planetary gearset so there's
no gear changes in the car makes it a
lot more seamless to drive a lot more
fun and some great acceleration it's got
a pretty cool display here as well
what's this display telling that telling
the driver so the display here is which
way the energy is going so we also have
the added ability of recharging the
battery as the vehicle slows down so
this tells us whether the tower is going
from the battery to the wheels or from
the generator to the battery or from the
wheels back to the battery and also we
also have the Energy Information so it's
now telling us that we've done six point
nine kilometers on battery power only
and all tell us how far we've gone using
the generator as well it's very easy to
talk about a product that is so good
advanced in terms of technology and it
sells itself just coming back into to
Holden HQ now we're gonna pull up on the
four ports and Dan's gonna plug the car
into our new charge station to show us
how easy it is to plug the car in
alright so the first thing we do is pull
up on the correct side of the car
so that we can charge shut the car down
we open the charged or by pressing the
button and in this case we have to swipe
a card to unlock the child station and
all we do is plug it in the light goes
on just to tell you that there's power
going into the car and then it goes
green to tell us that it's charging
thanks Dan thanks to Dionne shops if you
have any questions but they are and feel
free to leave a comment on this blog
post or reach us at twitter at holden
news thanks to you not a problem
you